Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. Programming Language is a general-purpose, concurrent,
   strongly typed, class-based object-oriented language.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. The JDK includes the Java Runtime Environment (JRE), an interpreter (java),
   a compiler (javac), an archiver (jar), a documentation generator (javadoc), and some other
   development tools.

What is IDE?
A.Stands for integrated development environment which is a software application
  that helps programmers develop software code.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.There are many IDEs such as Eclipse, Intellij, Xcode, and many more.


Explain the entire java life cycle.
The life cycle consists of compilation, class loading, initialization, execution, runtime, termination, garbage collection, exception handling, shutdown, and finalization

what is class?
class is a logical template to create objects that can share common properties and methods

What is object?
object is an instance of a Java class, meaning it is a copy of a specific class

What is the entry point of an application?
The main method is the entry point to an application

Why main is static?
Static is a particular member that belongs to a type itself, rather than to an instance of that type

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
an object class

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
The main difference between PATH and CLASSPATH is that Path is set for java tools in
java programs like java and javac, which are used to compile your code. Whereas CLASSPATH
is used by System or Application class loader to locate and load compile
Java bytecodes stored in the . class file

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
The difference between an interface and an abstract class is that an interface cannot have
state, whereas the abstract class can have state with instance variables.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
No but you can create a reference variable of an abstract class.

what is Access Specifier?
It help us to restrict the scope or visibility of a package, class,
constructor, methods, variables, or other data members.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
OOP concepts let us create working methods and variables,
then re-use all or part of them without compromising security. The concepts include
Abstraction, Encapsulation, Inheritance, and Polymorphism.
Abstraction means simple things like objects, classes and variables represent more
complex underlying code and data. This is important because it lets you avoid repeating
the same work multiple times.
Encapsulation is a protective barrier that keeps the data and code safe within the class itself.
Inheritance lets programmers create new classes that share some of the attributes of existing classes.
Polymorphism mean different things in different contexts. One form of polymorphism is
method overloading. That’s when the code itself implies different meanings. The other
form is method overriding. That’s when the values of the supplied variables
imply different meanings.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A Java package is used to group related classes. Think of it as a folder in a file directory and
java.lang package and a default package are imported by default.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
APIs are important software components bundled with the JDK. The Apis that I have used so far is
Javascript

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
Java doesn't support multiple inheritances in classes because it can lead to diamond
problem and rather than providing some complex way to solve it, there are better ways
through which we can achieve the same result as multiple inheritances.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Overloading occurs when two or more methods in the same class have the same name but
different parameters.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Java exceptions are specialized events that indicate something bad has happened in
the application, and the application either needs to recover or exit.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
a keyword which is used to share the same variable or method of a given class.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
The final keyword can be used with class method and variable. A final class cannot be
inherited, a final method cannot be overridden and a final variable cannot be reassigned.

What is final, finally and finalize?
    The final keyword can be used with class method and variable. A final class cannot be
   inherited, a final method cannot be overridden and a final variable cannot be reassigned.

   The finally keyword is used to create a block of code that follows a try block. A finally block of code always executes, whether or not an exception has occurred. Using a
   finally block allows you to run any cleanup-type statements that you just wish to execute,
    despite what happens within the protected code.

   The finalize() method is used just before object is destroyed and can be called just
   prior to object creation.

What is a constructor ?
is a special method that is used to initialize objects. The constructor is called when an
object of a class is created.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A class can have multiple constructors that assign the fields in different ways.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
If a class does not explicitly declare any, the Java compiler automatically provides a
no-argument constructor, called the default constructor.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
this keyword refers to the current object in a method or constructor.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
super keyword refers to superclass (parent) objects. It is used to call
superclass methods, and to access the superclass constructor.

What is JVM stand for ?
stands for java virtual machine

Is JVM platform independent?
yes it is independent

What version of java are you using?
11

What is JAR stand for ?
Java archive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
JDK is a software development kit to develop applications in Java.
JVM executes Java byte code and provides an environment for executing it.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
JRE identifies all the helpful class libraries needed for execution,
while JVM is a subclass of JRE that decodes the bytecode into machine
language and other minor tasks.

What is compile time and run time?
Compile time is the period when the programming code is converted to the machine code

What is heap?
Heap is where Java objects reside in.

How java manage it's memory?
Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM
starts up and may increase or decrease in size while the application runs. When the
heap becomes full, garbage is collected. During the garbage collection objects that
are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
String is immutable whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable classes.
StringBuffer is thread-safe and synchronized whereas StringBuilder is not. That's why
StringBuilder is faster than StringBuffer.

What is Singleton class?
In Java, Singleton is a design pattern that ensures that a class can only have one object.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
serialization in Java helps transport the code from one JVM to another and then
de-serialize it there. Deserialization is the exact opposite process of serialization
where the byte data type stream is converted back to an object in the memory.

when to use transient variable in java?
Transient in Java is used to mark the member variable not to be serialized when it is
persisted to streams of bytes.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
The while loop in java executes one or more statements after testing the loop
continuation condition at the start of each iteration. The do-while loop, however, tests
the loop continuation condition after the first iteration has completed.

What is Enum?
An enum type is a special data type that enables for a variable to be a set of predefined constants.

What is Iterator?
is an object used to cycle through arguments or elements present in a collection.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
The Integer class takes more memory than int.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
because of the security, synchronization and concurrency, caching, and class loading.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Constructor chaining is the process of calling a sequence of constructors.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
The primary difference between the serial and parallel collectors is
that the parallel collector has multiple threads that are used to speed up garbage collection.

What is JIT stands for?
Just In Time

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created
when the JVM starts up and may increase or decrease in size while the
application runs. When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected.
During the garbage collection objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
No

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Heap memory is used by all the parts of the application whereas stack
memory is used only by one thread of execution. Whenever an object is
created, it's always stored in the Heap space and stack memory
contains the reference to it.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
allows an executing Java program to examine or "introspect" upon itself, and manipulate
internal properties of the program.

what is multithreading in java?
Multithreading is a programming concept in which the application can create a small unit of tasks to
execute in parallel.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
It's the capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource.

What is Framework?
Java frameworks are pre-built libraries & modules that provide a set of common functionalities
for building applications.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
Selenium, Junit, TestNG

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
JUnit is a framework that is open-source and may be used to write and trigger tests.
TestNG is a Java-based framework that provides an improved way to run tests. JUnit is a framework that
is open-source and may be used to write and trigger tests. TestNG is a Java-based framework that
provides an improved way to run tests.

What are the dependencies for this project?
A Java class has a dependency on another class, if it uses an instance of this class. We call this a class dependency.

what is dependency injection in java?
It enables you to turn regular Java classes into managed objects and to inject them into any other
managed object. Using dependency injection, your code can declare dependencies on any managed object.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Static binding uses Type information for binding while Dynamic binding uses Objects to resolve binding.










